README.md, before:

This repo has several scripts, all related to cities temperatures, maybe some overlapping another's functionality:

For all the scripts you need first to install dependencies with:

`pip install --user -r requeriments.txt`


## Finding Köppen climate classification

Given a list of cities with their latitude and longitude, the script finds (approximately) the city's [Koppen climate classification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K%C3%B6ppen_climate_classification).
To do this it uses a "world map" divided in 0.5 degree zones and finds the nearest zone for a city position.

### Running

Download the data files (the ones listed in *Data Sources*) and put them in `data/`

Run the script:

`python -m cities-climate.find_cities_koppen`

It initially reads the cities list from `data/` and then it will start saving all the intermediate (and final) data in `cities.csv`.

### Data sources

* [Cities list from simplemaps](https://simplemaps.com/data/world-cities)
* [Koppen climate map](http://koeppen-geiger.vu-wien.ac.at/data/Koeppen-Geiger-ASCII.zip) from [World maps of Köppen-Geiger climate classification](http://koeppen-geiger.vu-wien.ac.at/present.htm). That file has a resolution of 0.5 degree and for the 50-year period 1951-2000.


## List of cities within a temperature range

Given a temperature range it lists cities having at least one month where their monthly average temperature falls within this range.

### Running

Run the script:

`python -m cities-climate.fetch_temps --min MIN_TEMP --max MAX_TEMP`

It initially scrapes data from WeatherBase and builds a local cache, so the script can resume from where it left off if interrupted. After downloading all the data, it saves a .csv file with all the data.

## List of cities within a temperature range (2)

Given a temperature range it lists cities having average monthly temperature in that range for all the year.

### Running

Run the script:

`python -m cities-climate.wikipedia_temps --min MIN_TEMP --max MAX_TEMP`

This script uses data from a wikipedia article listing average temps for several cities around the world. After downloading and parsing, the data is stored in a csv file.

There's also a small vue web app that uses this info to show the list of cities within certain range, to run it:

`cd temps; npm run serve`

Commit message:

script to download data from timeanddate

README.md, after:

This repo is an assorted collection of scripts relating to collecting and filtering cities' temperatures from around the world, maybe some overlapping another's functionality.

For all the scripts you need first to install dependencies with:

`pip install --user -r requeriments.txt`


## Finding Köppen climate classification

Given a list of cities with their latitude and longitude, the script finds (approximately) the city's [Koppen climate classification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K%C3%B6ppen_climate_classification).
To do this it uses a "world map" divided in 0.5 degree zones and finds the nearest zone for a city position.

### Running

Download the data files (the ones listed in *Data Sources*) and put them in `data/`

Run the script:

`python -m cities-climate.find_cities_koppen`

It initially reads the cities list from `data/` and then it will start saving all the intermediate (and final) data in `cities.csv`.

### Data sources

* [Cities list from simplemaps](https://simplemaps.com/data/world-cities)
* [Koppen climate map](http://koeppen-geiger.vu-wien.ac.at/data/Koeppen-Geiger-ASCII.zip) from [World maps of Köppen-Geiger climate classification](http://koeppen-geiger.vu-wien.ac.at/present.htm). That file has a resolution of 0.5 degree and for the 50-year period 1951-2000.


## List of cities within a temperature range

Given a temperature range it lists cities having at least one month where their monthly average temperature falls within this range.

### Running

Run the script:

`python -m cities-climate.fetch_temps --min MIN_TEMP --max MAX_TEMP`

It initially scrapes data from WeatherBase and builds a local cache, so the script can resume from where it left off if interrupted. After downloading all the data, it saves a .csv file with all the data.

## List of cities within a temperature range (2)

Given a temperature range it lists cities having average monthly temperature in that range for all the year.

### Running

Run the script:

`python -m cities-climate.wikipedia_temps --min MIN_TEMP --max MAX_TEMP`

This script uses data from a wikipedia article listing average temps for several cities around the world. After downloading and parsing, the data is stored in a csv file.

There's also a small vue web app that uses this info to show the list of cities within certain range, to run it:

`cd temps; npm run serve`
